# Yeast Profile: White Labs WLP300 Hefeweizen Ale Yeast

Yeast Name: Hefeweizen Ale Yeast
Lab / Manufacturer: White Labs
Strain Code: WLP300
Type: Ale
Form: Liquid

Technical Specifications:

Attenuation: 72-76%

Flocculation: Low

Optimum Fermentation Temp: 68°F - 72°F (20°C - 22°C)

Alcohol Tolerance: Medium to High (8-12%)

Flavor & Aroma Profile:

Primary: Produces a high level of isoamyl acetate, giving the resulting beer prominent notes of banana. It is considered "banana-forward".

Secondary: With balanced phenol production, this strain also produces notes of clove.

Notes: Pitching rate and temperature will dramatically affect the flavor and aroma. Traditional brewing techniques suggest underpitching to produce more classic characteristics of the style. Low flocculation leaves the desired cloudy look.

Brewing Usage:

Role: A popular German strain used in the production of traditional, authentic hefeweizen, especially where a distinct banana character is desired.

Beer Styles: Weissbier, Weizenbock.

Pitch Rate Notes:
Underpitching is recommended to enhance the classic banana and clove profile.

Yeast Profile: Lallemand LalBrew Munich Classic™
Yeast Name: LalBrew Munich Classic™
Lab / Manufacturer: Lallemand
Strain Code: Munich Classic
Type: Ale
Form: Dried

Technical Specifications:

Attenuation: 76-83%

Flocculation: Low

Optimum Fermentation Temp: 63°F - 77°F (17°C - 25°C)

Alcohol Tolerance: 12% ABV

Flavor & Aroma Profile:

Primary: A Bavarian wheat beer strain from the Doemens Academy Culture Collection that imparts the spicy and fruity aroma profile typical of German wheat beer styles.

Secondary: Aroma and flavor are balanced with prominent notes of banana and clove. Produces higher levels of esters and phenols compared to Belgian wheat strains.

Notes: A true top-cropping yeast that can be skimmed off the top of open fermentation vessels in the traditional manner.

Brewing Usage:

Role: A robust and consistent choice for a number of traditional styles of wheat beer, simple to use over a wide range of recipes and fermentation conditions.

Beer Styles: Weizen/Weissbier, Dunkelweizen, Weizenbock.

Pitch Rate Notes:
A commercial pitch rate of 50-100g per hectoliter is recommended.
